# Environment Preparation
I used Google Cloud platform for cloud platform. Cloud is not necessary, local development is also possible. However, I wanted to discover GCP as well.
I prefered pyenv for managing python version and virtual environment.

## 1. GCP Setup
### Create GCP Account and Project
1. Open a free personal GCP account.
2. Create a new project named mlops-zoomcamp.    

### Create and Configure VM Instance
1. Go to Compute Engine and enable the API.
2. Create a new VM instance with the following configuration:
    - Name: mlops-zoomcamp
    - Region: us-west1
    - Zone: us-west1-b
    - Machine: N2
    - Type: n2-standard-2
    - Boot Disk Image: Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
    - Firewall: Allow both HTTP and HTTPS traffic
3. Before pressing Create, configure your SSH keys.
   - Follow [this guide](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/connect/create-ssh-keys) to create SSH keys based on your local OS.
   - Copy your public SSH key file (.pub extension) to the clipboard. For example: cat ~/.ssh/mlops_ssh.pub
   - On GCP, go to the Security section and add your SSH keys in the "Add manually generated SSH keys" section.
4. Press the Create button and wait for your instance to be created.

#### Accessing the VM
1. To access the VM through your local terminal: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/mlops_ssh <username>@<VM_IP_ADDRESS>`
    For example: `ssh -i ~/.ssh/mlops_ssh simgek@34.71.188.44`
2. To avoid typing this command every time, you can create an SSH configuration file: `vim ~/.ssh/config`
3. Add the following configuration:
```
Host mlops-zoomcamp
    HostName 34.71.188.44
    User simgek
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/mlops_ssh
```
4. Now, you can connect using: `ssh mlops-zoomcamp`

## 2. Setting Up Python Environment

### Install Pyenv
1. Install Pyenv following the instructions from the [Pyenv GitHub repository.](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv-installer)

### Configure Shell for Pyenv
1. Set up your shell environment for Pyenv as described [here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#set-up-your-shell-environment-for-pyenv).
2. Apply the changes: `source ~/.bashrc`

Note: Dependencies are required to install Python versions with Pyenv. Refer to the [Pyenv Wiki](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv/wiki#suggested-build-environment) for more details.

### Install Specific Python Version
- The command used to install that version with pyenv:
  ```
  pyenv install 3.9.12
  ```
- If you want other versions, you can look at the available list by using command:
  ```
  pyenv install --list
  ```
- Make python version used as global:
  ```
  pyenv global 3.9.12
  ```
For sanity check, type `python` and you should be entering Python 3.9.12 interface. 
Or, you can use command `pyenv which python`. To check the list of python versions you already installed, just run `pyenv versions`.

### Create Virtual Environment
- To create a virtual environment using pyenv:
  ```
  pyenv virtualenv [version] [env_name]
  ```
  For example:
  ```
  pyenv virtualenv 3.9.7 mlops-zoomcamp
  ```

## 3. Install Docker
```
sudo apt install docker.io
```
To run docker without sudo:
```
sudo groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```

### Install Docker Compose

1. Install docker-compose in a separate directory:
   ```
   mkdir soft
   cd soft
   ```
2. To get the latest release of Docker Compose, go to https://github.com/docker/compose and download the release for your OS.
    ```
    wget https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/v2.5.0/docker-compose-linux-x86_64 -O docker-compose
    ```
3. Make it executable:
   ```
   chmod +x docker-compose
   ```
4. Add to the soft directory to PATH. Open the .bashrc file:
   ```
   vim ~/.bashrc
   ```
5. In .bashrc, add the following line:
   ```
   export PATH="${HOME}/soft:${PATH}"
   ```
6. Save it and run the following to make sure the changes are applied:
   ```
   source ~/.bashrc
   ```

### Run Docker
```
docker run hello-world
```
If you get docker: Got permission denied while trying to connect to the Docker daemon socket at unix:///var/run/docker.sock: Post "http://%2Fvar%2Frun%2Fdocker.sock/v1.24/containers/create": dial unix /var/run/docker.sock: connect: permission denied. error, restart your VM instance.

Note: If you get It is required that your private key files are NOT accessible by others. This private key will be ignored. error, you should change permits on the downloaded file to protect your private key:

```
chmod 400 name-of-your-private-key-file.pem
```
## 4. PyCharm Remote Development

Follow the instructions in the [PyCharm documentation](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/2023.1/remote-development-a.html#gateway) to set up remote development.

## 5. Repositories followed
- https://github.com/syahrulhamdani/dtc-mlops/blob/main/week-1-introduction/README.md
- https://github.com/DataTalksClub/mlops-zoomcamp/tree/main/01-intro




